
[back](../index.md)
Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Keylogging 

Adversaries may log user keystrokes to intercept credentials as the user types them. Keylogging is likely to be used to acquire credentials for new access opportunities when [OS Credential Dumping](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003) efforts are not effective, and may require an adversary to intercept keystrokes on a system for a substantial period of time before credentials can be successfully captured.

Keylogging is the most prevalent type of input capture, with many different ways of intercepting keystrokes.(Citation: Adventures of a Keystroke) Some methods include:

* Hooking API callbacks used for processing keystrokes. Unlike [Credential API Hooking](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1056/004), this focuses solely on API functions intended for processing keystroke data.
* Reading raw keystroke data from the hardware buffer.
* Windows Registry modifications.
* Custom drivers.
* [Modify System Image](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601) may provide adversaries with hooks into the operating system of network devices to read raw keystrokes for login sessions.(Citation: Cisco Blog Legacy Device Attacks) 

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - credential-access
  - collection


## technique
  - T1056.001


# Test : Logging bash history to syslog
## OS
  - linux


## Description:
There are several variables that can be set to control the appearance of the bash command prompt: PS1, PS2, PS3, PS4 and PROMPT_COMMAND. The contents of these variables are executed as if they had been typed on the command line. The PROMPT_COMMAND variable "if set" will be executed before the PS1 variable and can be configured to write the latest "bash history" entries to the syslog.

To gain persistence the command could be added to the users .bashrc or .bash_aliases or the systems default .bashrc in /etc/skel/ 


# Sigma Rule

