
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: DNS 

Adversaries may communicate using the Domain Name System (DNS) application layer protocol to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

The DNS protocol serves an administrative function in computer networking and thus may be very common in environments. DNS traffic may also be allowed even before network authentication is completed. DNS packets contain many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. Often known as DNS tunneling, adversaries may abuse DNS to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic.(Citation: PAN DNS Tunneling)(Citation: Medium DnsTunneling) 

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - command-and-control


## technique
  - T1071.004


# Test : DNS Large Query Volume
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
This test simulates an infected host sending a large volume of DNS queries to a command and control server.
The intent of this test is to trigger threshold based detection on the number of DNS queries either from a single source system or to a single targe domain.
A custom domain and sub-domain will need to be passed as input parameters for this test to work. Upon execution, DNS information about the domain will be displayed for each callout.


# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
