
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Asynchronous Procedure Call 

Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via the asynchronous procedure call (APC) queue in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. APC injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

APC injection is commonly performed by attaching malicious code to the APC Queue (Citation: Microsoft APC) of a process's thread. Queued APC functions are executed when the thread enters an alterable state.(Citation: Microsoft APC) A handle to an existing victim process is first created with native Windows API calls such as <code>OpenThread</code>. At this point <code>QueueUserAPC</code> can be used to invoke a function (such as <code>LoadLibrayA</code> pointing to a malicious DLL). 

A variation of APC injection, dubbed "Early Bird injection", involves creating a suspended process in which malicious code can be written and executed before the process' entry point (and potentially subsequent anti-malware hooks) via an APC. (Citation: CyberBit Early Bird Apr 2018) AtomBombing (Citation: ENSIL AtomBombing Oct 2016) is another variation that utilizes APCs to invoke malicious code previously written to the global atom table.(Citation: Microsoft Atom Table)

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via APC injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - privilege-escalation
  - defense-evasion


## technique
  - T1055.004


# Test : Process Injection via C#
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Process Injection using C#
reference: https://github.com/pwndizzle/c-sharp-memory-injection
Excercises Five Techniques
1. Process injection
2. ApcInjectionAnyProcess
3. ApcInjectionNewProcess
4. IatInjection
5. ThreadHijack
Upon successful execution, cmd.exe will execute T1055.exe, which exercises 5 techniques. Output will be via stdout.


## Executor
command_prompt

# Sigma Rule
 - sysmon_in_memory_assembly_execution.yml (id: 5f113a8f-8b61-41ca-b90f-d374fa7e4a39)

 - sysmon_suspicious_dbghelp_dbgcore_load.yml (id: 0e277796-5f23-4e49-a490-483131d4f6e1)



[back](../index.md)
