
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Malicious File 

An adversary may rely upon a user opening a malicious file in order to gain execution. Users may be subjected to social engineering to get them to open a file that will lead to code execution. This user action will typically be observed as follow-on behavior from [Spearphishing Attachment](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566/001). Adversaries may use several types of files that require a user to execute them, including .doc, .pdf, .xls, .rtf, .scr, .exe, .lnk, .pif, and .cpl.

Adversaries may employ various forms of [Masquerading](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036) on the file to increase the likelihood that a user will open it.

While [Malicious File](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204/002) frequently occurs shortly after Initial Access it may occur at other phases of an intrusion, such as when an adversary places a file in a shared directory or on a user's desktop hoping that a user will click on it. This activity may also be seen shortly after [Internal Spearphishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1534).

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - execution


## technique
  - T1204.002


# Test : Headless Chrome code execution via VBA
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
This module uses Google Chrome combined with ScriptControl to achieve code execution. It spawns a local
webserver hosting our malicious payload. Headless Google Chrome will then reach out to this webserver
and pull down the script and execute it. By default the payload will execute calc.exe on the system.


## Executor
powershell

# Sigma Rule
 - sysmon_susp_winword_vbadll_load.yml (id: e6ce8457-68b1-485b-9bdd-3c2b5d679aa9)

 - win_office_shell.yml (id: 438025f9-5856-4663-83f7-52f878a70a50)

 - win_susp_mshta_pattern.yml (id: e32f92d1-523e-49c3-9374-bdb13b46a3ba)

 - win_susp_mshta_execution.yml (id: cc7abbd0-762b-41e3-8a26-57ad50d2eea3)



[back](../index.md)
