
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Account Manipulation 

Adversaries may manipulate accounts to maintain access to victim systems. Account manipulation may consist of any action that preserves adversary access to a compromised account, such as modifying credentials or permission groups. These actions could also include account activity designed to subvert security policies, such as performing iterative password updates to bypass password duration policies and preserve the life of compromised credentials. In order to create or manipulate accounts, the adversary must already have sufficient permissions on systems or the domain.

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1098


# Test : Azure - adding service principal to Azure role in subscription
## OS
  - iaas:azure


## Description:
The adversarie want to add service principal to some Azure role, also called Azure resource role. Threat actor 
may be interested primarily in highly privileged roles, e.g. Owner, Contributor.
By default, the role Reader is assigned to service principal in this test.

New-AzRoleAssignment cmdlet could be also use to assign user/service principal to resource, resource group and management group.

The account you use to run the PowerShell command must have Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/write 
(e.g. such as User Access Administrator or Owner) and the Azure Active Directory Graph Directory.Read.All 
and Microsoft Graph Directory.Read.All permissions.

Detection hint - check Operation Name "Create role assignment" in subscriptions Activity Logs.


## Executor
powershell

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
