
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: DNS 

Adversaries may communicate using the Domain Name System (DNS) application layer protocol to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

The DNS protocol serves an administrative function in computer networking and thus may be very common in environments. DNS traffic may also be allowed even before network authentication is completed. DNS packets contain many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. Often known as DNS tunneling, adversaries may abuse DNS to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic.(Citation: PAN DNS Tunneling)(Citation: Medium DnsTunneling) 

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - command-and-control


## technique
  - T1071.004


# Test : DNS Long Domain Query
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
This test simulates an infected host returning data to a command and control server using long domain names.
The simulation involves sending DNS queries that gradually increase in length until reaching the maximum length. The intent is to test the effectiveness of detection of DNS queries for long domain names over a set threshold.
 Upon execution, DNS information about the domain will be displayed for each callout.


## Executor
powershell

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
