
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Account Manipulation 

Adversaries may manipulate accounts to maintain access to victim systems. Account manipulation may consist of any action that preserves adversary access to a compromised account, such as modifying credentials or permission groups. These actions could also include account activity designed to subvert security policies, such as performing iterative password updates to bypass password duration policies and preserve the life of compromised credentials. 

In order to create or manipulate accounts, the adversary must already have sufficient permissions on systems or the domain. However, account manipulation may also lead to privilege escalation where modifications grant access to additional roles, permissions, or higher-privileged [Valid Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078).

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1098


# Test : Azure AD - adding user to Azure AD role
## OS
  - azure-ad


## Description:
The adversaries want to add user to some Azure AD role. Threat actor 
may be interested primarily in highly privileged roles, e.g. Global Administrator, Application Administrator, 
Privileged Authentication Administrator (this role can reset Global Administrator password!).
By default, the role Global Reader is assigned to the user principal in this test.

The account you use to run the PowerShell command should have Privileged Role Administrator or Global Administrator role in your Azure AD.

Detection hint - check Activity "Add member to role" in Azure AD Audit Logs. In targer you will also see User as a type.


## Executor
powershell

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
