
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Impair Defenses: Disable Cloud Logs 

An adversary may disable cloud logging capabilities and integrations to limit what data is collected on their activities and avoid detection. 

Cloud environments allow for collection and analysis of audit and application logs that provide insight into what activities a user does within the environment. If an adversary has sufficient permissions, they can disable logging to avoid detection of their activities. For example, in AWS an adversary may disable CloudWatch/CloudTrail integrations prior to conducting further malicious activity.(Citation: Following the CloudTrail: Generating strong AWS security signals with Sumo Logic)

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - defense-evasion


## technique
  - T1562.008


# Test : AWS - CloudTrail Logs Impairment Through S3 Lifecycle Rule using Stratus
## OS
  - linux
  - macos


## Description:
This Atomic test will use the Stratus Red Team will first setup a CloudTrail logging into an S3 bucket and will then make an API call to update the lifecycle rule on that S3 bucket with an expiration date of 1 day. This will essentially delete all the logs after one day. Adversaries often do this actiivity to evade detection. Stratus Red Team is a self-contained binary. You can use it to easily detonate offensive attack techniques against a live cloud environment. ref: https://stratus-red-team.cloud/attack-techniques/AWS/aws.defense-evasion.cloudtrail-lifecycle-rule/


## Executor
sh

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
