
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Hijack Execution Flow: Path Interception by Unquoted Path 

Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking vulnerable file path references. Adversaries can take advantage of paths that lack surrounding quotations by placing an executable in a higher level directory within the path, so that Windows will choose the adversary's executable to launch.

Service paths (Citation: Microsoft CurrentControlSet Services) and shortcut paths may also be vulnerable to path interception if the path has one or more spaces and is not surrounded by quotation marks (e.g., <code>C:\unsafe path with space\program.exe</code> vs. <code>"C:\safe path with space\program.exe"</code>). (Citation: Help eliminate unquoted path) (stored in Windows Registry keys) An adversary can place an executable in a higher level directory of the path, and Windows will resolve that executable instead of the intended executable. For example, if the path in a shortcut is <code>C:\program files\myapp.exe</code>, an adversary may create a program at <code>C:\program.exe</code> that will be run instead of the intended program. (Citation: Windows Unquoted Services) (Citation: Windows Privilege Escalation Guide)

This technique can be used for persistence if executables are called on a regular basis, as well as privilege escalation if intercepted executables are started by a higher privileged process.

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - privilege-escalation
  - defense-evasion
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1574.009


# Test : Execution of program.exe as service with unquoted service path
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
When a service is created whose executable path contains spaces and isn’t enclosed within quotes, leads to a vulnerability
known as Unquoted Service Path which allows a user to gain SYSTEM privileges.
In this case, if an executable program.exe in C:\ exists, C:\program.exe will be executed instead of test.exe in C:\Program Files\subfolder\test.exe.


## Executor
command_prompt

# Sigma Rule
 - file_event_win_creation_unquoted_service_path.yml (id: 8c3c76ca-8f8b-4b1d-aaf3-81aebcd367c9)

 - proc_creation_win_new_service_creation.yml (id: 7fe71fc9-de3b-432a-8d57-8c809efc10ab)



[back](../index.md)
