
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Valid Accounts: Cloud Accounts 

Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a cloud account as a means of gaining Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Cloud accounts are those created and configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration of resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application. In some cases, cloud accounts may be federated with traditional identity management systems, such as Windows Active Directory.(Citation: AWS Identity Federation)(Citation: Google Federating GC)(Citation: Microsoft Deploying AD Federation)

Compromised credentials for cloud accounts can be used to harvest sensitive data from online storage accounts and databases. Access to cloud accounts can also be abused to gain Initial Access to a network by abusing a [Trusted Relationship](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1199). Similar to [Domain Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/002), compromise of federated cloud accounts may allow adversaries to more easily move laterally within an environment.

Once a cloud account is compromised, an adversary may perform [Account Manipulation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1098) - for example, by adding [Additional Cloud Roles](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1098/003) - to maintain persistence and potentially escalate their privileges.

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - defense-evasion
  - persistence
  - privilege-escalation
  - initial-access


## technique
  - T1078.004


# Test : GCP - Create Custom IAM Role
## OS
  - iaas:gcp


## Description:
This atomic will create a new IAM role. The default role permissions are: *IAM Service Account Get*. The idea for this Atomic came from a Rule published by the Elastic team.

Identifies an Identity and Access Management (IAM) custom role creation in Google Cloud Platform (GCP). 
Custom roles are user-defined, and allow for the bundling of one or more supported permissions to meet specific needs. 
Custom roles will not be updated automatically and could lead to privilege creep if not carefully scrutinized.

This atomic will create a new IAM role. The default role permissions are: *IAM Service Account Get*

Reference: https://github.com/elastic/detection-rules/blob/main/rules/integrations/gcp/initial_access_gcp_iam_custom_role_creation.toml


## Executor
sh

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
