
[back](../index.md)
Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Windows Management Instrumentation Event Subscription 

Adversaries may establish persistence and elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by a Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) event subscription. WMI can be used to install event filters, providers, consumers, and bindings that execute code when a defined event occurs. Examples of events that may be subscribed to are the wall clock time, user loging, or the computer's uptime. (Citation: Mandiant M-Trends 2015)

Adversaries may use the capabilities of WMI to subscribe to an event and execute arbitrary code when that event occurs, providing persistence on a system. (Citation: FireEye WMI SANS 2015) (Citation: FireEye WMI 2015) Adversaries may also compile WMI scripts into Windows Management Object (MOF) files (.mof extension) that can be used to create a malicious subscription. (Citation: Dell WMI Persistence) (Citation: Microsoft MOF May 2018)

WMI subscription execution is proxied by the WMI Provider Host process (WmiPrvSe.exe) and thus may result in elevated SYSTEM privileges.

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - privilege-escalation
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1546.003


# Test : Persistence via WMI Event Subscription
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Run from an administrator powershell window. After running, reboot the victim machine.
After it has been online for 4 minutes you should see notepad.exe running as SYSTEM.

Code references

https://gist.github.com/mattifestation/7fe1df7ca2f08cbfa3d067def00c01af

https://github.com/EmpireProject/Empire/blob/master/data/module_source/persistence/Persistence.psm1#L545


# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
