
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: System Owner/User Discovery 

Adversaries may attempt to identify the primary user, currently logged in user, set of users that commonly uses a system, or whether a user is actively using the system. They may do this, for example, by retrieving account usernames or by using [OS Credential Dumping](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003). The information may be collected in a number of different ways using other Discovery techniques, because user and username details are prevalent throughout a system and include running process ownership, file/directory ownership, session information, and system logs. Adversaries may use the information from [System Owner/User Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Various utilities and commands may acquire this information, including <code>whoami</code>. In macOS and Linux, the currently logged in user can be identified with <code>w</code> and <code>who</code>. On macOS the <code>dscl . list /Users | grep -v '_'</code> command can also be used to enumerate user accounts. Environment variables, such as <code>%USERNAME%</code> and <code>$USER</code>, may also be used to access this information.

On network devices, [Network Device CLI](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/008) commands such as `show users` and `show ssh` can be used to display users currently logged into the device.(Citation: show_ssh_users_cmd_cisco)(Citation: US-CERT TA18-106A Network Infrastructure Devices 2018)

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - discovery


## technique
  - T1033


# Test : System Owner/User Discovery
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Identify System owner or users on an endpoint.

Upon successful execution, cmd.exe will spawn multiple commands against a target host to identify usernames. Output will be via stdout. 
Additionally, two files will be written to disk - computers.txt and usernames.txt.


## Executor
command_prompt

# Sigma Rule
 - proc_creation_win_susp_local_system_owner_account_discovery.yml (id: 502b42de-4306-40b4-9596-6f590c81f073)

 - image_load_wmic_remote_xsl_scripting_dlls.yml (id: 06ce37c2-61ab-4f05-9ff5-b1a96d18ae32)



[back](../index.md)
