
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Malicious File 

An adversary may rely upon a user opening a malicious file in order to gain execution. Users may be subjected to social engineering to get them to open a file that will lead to code execution. This user action will typically be observed as follow-on behavior from [Spearphishing Attachment](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566/001). Adversaries may use several types of files that require a user to execute them, including .doc, .pdf, .xls, .rtf, .scr, .exe, .lnk, .pif, and .cpl.

Adversaries may employ various forms of [Masquerading](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036) on the file to increase the likelihood that a user will open it.

While [Malicious File](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204/002) frequently occurs shortly after Initial Access it may occur at other phases of an intrusion, such as when an adversary places a file in a shared directory or on a user's desktop hoping that a user will click on it. This activity may also be seen shortly after [Internal Spearphishing](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1534).

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - execution


## technique
  - T1204.002


# Test : Excel 4 Macro
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
This module creates an Excel 4 Macro (XLM) enabled spreadsheet and executes it. The XLM will first write a "malicious"
VBS file to %TEMP%, then execute this file. The VBS will download Process Explorer to the same directory (%TEMP%) and exec.

A note regarding this module. By default, this module will pull the current username from the system and places it into the macro. If
you'd like to utilize the "=GET.WORKSPACE(26)" method, that many maldoc authors use, you will need to ensure that the User Name associated
with Excel matches that of the local system. This username can be found under Files -> Options -> Username


## Executor
powershell

# Sigma Rule
 - proc_creation_win_powershell_cmdline_special_characters.yml (id: d7bcd677-645d-4691-a8d4-7a5602b780d1)

 - proc_creation_win_susp_script_exec_from_temp.yml (id: a6a39bdb-935c-4f0a-ab77-35f4bbf44d33)

 - image_load_susp_winword_vbadll_load.yml (id: e6ce8457-68b1-485b-9bdd-3c2b5d679aa9)

 - file_event_win_script_creation_by_office_using_file_ext.yml (id: c7a74c80-ba5a-486e-9974-ab9e682bc5e4)

 - net_connection_win_excel_outbound_network_connection.yml (id: 75e33ce3-ae32-4dcc-9aa8-a2a3029d6f84)

 - proc_creation_win_malware_script_dropper.yml (id: cea72823-df4d-4567-950c-0b579eaf0846)

 - image_load_uipromptforcreds_dlls.yml (id: 9ae01559-cf7e-4f8e-8e14-4c290a1b4784)

 - registry_add_sysinternals_eula_accepted.yml (id: 25ffa65d-76d8-4da5-a832-3f2b0136e133)

 - proc_access_win_susp_proc_access_lsass_susp_source.yml (id: fa34b441-961a-42fa-a100-ecc28c886725)



[back](../index.md)
