
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: DLL Side-Loading 

Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by side-loading DLLs. Similar to [DLL Search Order Hijacking](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/001), side-loading involves hijacking which DLL a program loads. But rather than just planting the DLL within the search order of a program then waiting for the victim application to be invoked, adversaries may directly side-load their payloads by planting then invoking a legitimate application that executes their payload(s).

Side-loading takes advantage of the DLL search order used by the loader by positioning both the victim application and malicious payload(s) alongside each other. Adversaries likely use side-loading as a means of masking actions they perform under a legitimate, trusted, and potentially elevated system or software process. Benign executables used to side-load payloads may not be flagged during delivery and/or execution. Adversary payloads may also be encrypted/packed or otherwise obfuscated until loaded into the memory of the trusted process.(Citation: FireEye DLL Side-Loading)

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - privilege-escalation
  - defense-evasion
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1574.002


# Test : DLL Side-Loading using the Notepad++ GUP.exe binary
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
GUP is an open source signed binary used by Notepad++ for software updates, and is vulnerable to DLL Side-Loading, thus enabling the libcurl dll to be loaded.
Upon execution, calc.exe will be opened.


# Sigma Rule
 - win_susp_gup.yml (id: 0a4f6091-223b-41f6-8743-f322ec84930b)

 - sysmon_suspicious_dbghelp_dbgcore_load.yml (id: 0e277796-5f23-4e49-a490-483131d4f6e1)



[back](../index.md)
