
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Indicator Removal on Host: File Deletion 

Adversaries may delete files left behind by the actions of their intrusion activity. Malware, tools, or other non-native files dropped or created on a system by an adversary (ex: [Ingress Tool Transfer](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1105)) may leave traces to indicate to what was done within a network and how. Removal of these files can occur during an intrusion, or as part of a post-intrusion process to minimize the adversary's footprint.

There are tools available from the host operating system to perform cleanup, but adversaries may use other tools as well.(Citation: Microsoft SDelete July 2016) Examples of built-in [Command and Scripting Interpreter](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059) functions include <code>del</code> on Windows and <code>rm</code> or <code>unlink</code> on Linux and macOS.

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - defense-evasion


## technique
  - T1070.004


# Test : Delete TeamViewer Log Files
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Adversaries may delete TeamViewer log files to hide activity. This should provide a high true-positive alert ration.
This test just places the files in a non-TeamViewer folder, a detection would just check for a deletion event matching the TeamViewer
log file format of TeamViewer_##.log. Upon execution, no output will be displayed. Use File Explorer to verify the folder was deleted.

https://twitter.com/SBousseaden/status/1197524463304290305?s=20


## Executor
powershell

# Sigma Rule
 - file_delete_win_delete_appli_log.yml (id: b1decb61-ed83-4339-8e95-53ea51901720)



[back](../index.md)
