
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Account Manipulation 

Adversaries may manipulate accounts to maintain access to victim systems. Account manipulation may consist of any action that preserves adversary access to a compromised account, such as modifying credentials or permission groups. These actions could also include account activity designed to subvert security policies, such as performing iterative password updates to bypass password duration policies and preserve the life of compromised credentials. 

In order to create or manipulate accounts, the adversary must already have sufficient permissions on systems or the domain. However, account manipulation may also lead to privilege escalation where modifications grant access to additional roles, permissions, or higher-privileged [Valid Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078).

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1098


# Test : GCP - Delete Service Account Key
## OS
  - iaas:gcp


## Description:
This Atomic will: 
  - Create a service account
  - Create a service account key, 
  - Store the result of retrieving a single key for that service account as a variable
  - Pass that variable for deletion
  - Delete the service account

The idea for this Atomic came from a Rule published by the Elastic team.

Identifies the deletion of an Identity and Access Management (IAM) service account key in Google Cloud Platform (GCP).
Each service account is associated with two sets of public/private RSA key pairs that are used to authenticate. 
If a key is deleted, the application will no longer be able to access Google Cloud resources using that key. A security best practice is to rotate your service account keys regularly.

Reference: https://github.com/elastic/detection-rules/blob/main/rules/integrations/gcp/impact_gcp_storage_bucket_deleted.toml


## Executor
sh

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
