
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Signed Binary Proxy Execution 

Adversaries may bypass process and/or signature-based defenses by proxying execution of malicious content with signed binaries. Binaries signed with trusted digital certificates can execute on Windows systems protected by digital signature validation. Several Microsoft signed binaries that are default on Windows installations can be used to proxy execution of other files.

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - defense-evasion


## technique
  - T1218


# Test : Invoke-ATHRemoteFXvGPUDisablementCommand base test
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
RemoteFXvGPUDisablement.exe is an abusable, signed PowerShell host executable that was introduced in Windows 10 and Server 2019 (OS Build 17763.1339).

One of the PowerShell functions called by RemoteFXvGPUDisablement.exe is Get-VMRemoteFXPhysicalVideoAdapter, a part of the Hyper-V module. This atomic test influences RemoteFXvGPUDisablement.exe to execute custom PowerShell code by using a technique referred to as "PowerShell module load-order hijacking" where a module containing, in this case, an implementation of the Get-VMRemoteFXPhysicalVideoAdapter is loaded first by way of introducing a temporary module into the first directory listed in the %PSModulePath% environment variable or within a user-specified module directory outside of %PSModulePath%. Upon execution the temporary module is deleted.

Invoke-ATHRemoteFXvGPUDisablementCommand is used in this test to demonstrate how a PowerShell host executable can be directed to user-supplied PowerShell code without needing to supply anything at the command-line. PowerShell code execution is triggered when supplying the "Disable" argument to RemoteFXvGPUDisablement.exe.

The Invoke-ATHRemoteFXvGPUDisablementCommand function outputs all relevant execution-related artifacts.

Reference: https://github.com/redcanaryco/AtomicTestHarnesses/blob/master/TestHarnesses/T1218_SignedBinaryProxyExecution/InvokeRemoteFXvGPUDisablementCommand.ps1


# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
