
[back](../index.md)
Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Account Manipulation 

Adversaries may manipulate accounts to maintain access to victim systems. Account manipulation may consist of any action that preserves adversary access to a compromised account, such as modifying credentials or permission groups. These actions could also include account activity designed to subvert security policies, such as performing iterative password updates to bypass password duration policies and preserve the life of compromised credentials. In order to create or manipulate accounts, the adversary must already have sufficient permissions on systems or the domain.

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1098


# Test : Domain Account and Group Manipulate
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Create a random atr-nnnnnnnn account and add it to a domain group (by default, Domain Admins). 

The quickest way to run it is against a domain controller, using `-Session` of `Invoke-AtomicTest`. Alternatively,
you need to install PS Module ActiveDirectory (in prereqs) and run the script with appropriare AD privileges to 
create the user and alter the group. Automatic installation of the dependency requires an elevated session, 
and is unlikely to work with Powershell Core (untested).

If you consider running this test against a production Active Directory, the good practise is to create a dedicated
service account whose delegation is given onto a dedicated OU for user creation and deletion, as well as delegated
as group manager of the target group.

Example: `Invoke-AtomicTest -Session $session 'T1098' -TestNames "Domain Account and Group Manipulate" -InputArgs @{"group" = "DNSAdmins" }`


# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
