
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility 

Adversaries may use utilities to compress and/or encrypt collected data prior to exfiltration. Many utilities include functionalities to compress, encrypt, or otherwise package data into a format that is easier/more secure to transport.

Adversaries may abuse various utilities to compress or encrypt data before exfiltration. Some third party utilities may be preinstalled, such as <code>tar</code> on Linux and macOS or <code>zip</code> on Windows systems. 

On Windows, <code>diantz</code> or <code> makecab</code> may be used to package collected files into a cabinet (.cab) file. <code>diantz</code> may also be used to download and compress files from remote locations (i.e. [Remote Data Staging](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1074/002)).(Citation: diantz.exe_lolbas) <code>xcopy</code> on Windows can copy files and directories with a variety of options. Additionally, adversaries may use [certutil](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0160) to Base64 encode collected data before exfiltration. 

Adversaries may use also third party utilities, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip, to perform similar activities.(Citation: 7zip Homepage)(Citation: WinRAR Homepage)(Citation: WinZip Homepage)

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - collection


## technique
  - T1560.001


# Test : Encrypts collected data with AES-256 and Base64
## OS
  - linux
  - macos


## Description:
An adversary may compress all the collected data, encrypt and send them to a C2 server using base64 encoding. 
This atomic test tries to emulate the behaviour of the FLEXIROOT backdoor to archive the collected data. FLEXIROOT typically utilizes AES encryption and base64 encoding to transfer the encrypted data to the C2 server. 
In this test, standard zip compression and the OpenSSL library are used to encrypt the compressed data.
https://attack.mitre.org/versions/v7/software/S0267/

## Executor
bash

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
