
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Impair Defenses: Disable or Modify Tools 

Adversaries may modify and/or disable security tools to avoid possible detection of their malware/tools and activities. This may take the many forms, such as killing security software processes or services, modifying / deleting Registry keys or configuration files so that tools do not operate properly, or other methods to interfere with security tools scanning or reporting information.

Adversaries may also tamper with artifacts deployed and utilized by security tools. Security tools may make dynamic changes to system components in order to maintain visibility into specific events. For example, security products may load their own modules and/or modify those loaded by processes to facilitate data collection. Similar to [Indicator Blocking](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/006), adversaries may unhook or otherwise modify these features added by tools (especially those that exist in userland or are otherwise potentially accessible to adversaries) to avoid detection.(Citation: OutFlank System Calls)(Citation: MDSec System Calls)

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - defense-evasion


## technique
  - T1562.001


# Test : Tamper with Windows Defender Command Prompt
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Attempting to disable scheduled scanning and other parts of windows defender atp. These commands must be run as System, so they still fail as administrator.
However, adversaries do attempt to perform this action so monitoring for these command lines can help alert to other bad things going on. Upon execution, "Access Denied"
will be displayed twice and the WinDefend service status will be displayed.


## Executor
command_prompt

# Sigma Rule
 - proc_creation_win_powershell_disable_defender_av_security_monitoring.yml (id: a7ee1722-c3c5-aeff-3212-c777e4733217)

 - proc_creation_win_sc_query.yml (id: 57712d7a-679c-4a41-a913-87e7175ae429)



[back](../index.md)
