
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Event Triggered Execution 

Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges using system mechanisms that trigger execution based on specific events. Various operating systems have means to monitor and subscribe to events such as logons or other user activity such as running specific applications/binaries. Cloud environments may also support various functions and services that monitor and can be invoked in response to specific cloud events.(Citation: Backdooring an AWS account)(Citation: Varonis Power Automate Data Exfiltration)(Citation: Microsoft DART Case Report 001)

Adversaries may abuse these mechanisms as a means of maintaining persistent access to a victim via repeatedly executing malicious code. After gaining access to a victim system, adversaries may create/modify event triggers to point to malicious content that will be executed whenever the event trigger is invoked.(Citation: FireEye WMI 2015)(Citation: Malware Persistence on OS X)(Citation: amnesia malware)

Since the execution can be proxied by an account with higher permissions, such as SYSTEM or service accounts, an adversary may be able to abuse these triggered execution mechanisms to escalate their privileges. 

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - privilege-escalation
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1546


# Test : WMI Invoke-CimMethod Start Process
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
The following Atomic will create a New-CimSession on a remote endpoint and start a process usnig Invoke-CimMethod.
This is a novel way to perform lateral movement or to start a remote process.
This does require WinRM to be enabled. The account performing the run will also need to be elevated.
A successful execution will stdout that the process started. On the remote endpoint, wmiprvse.exe will spawn the given process.


## Executor
powershell

# Sigma Rule
 - proc_creation_win_powershell_cmdline_convertto_securestring.yml (id: 74403157-20f5-415d-89a7-c505779585cf)

 - posh_ps_susp_set_alias.yml (id: 96cd126d-f970-49c4-848a-da3a09f55c55)



[back](../index.md)
