
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Input Capture: Keylogging 

Adversaries may log user keystrokes to intercept credentials as the user types them. Keylogging is likely to be used to acquire credentials for new access opportunities when [OS Credential Dumping](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003) efforts are not effective, and may require an adversary to intercept keystrokes on a system for a substantial period of time before credentials can be successfully captured.

Keylogging is the most prevalent type of input capture, with many different ways of intercepting keystrokes.(Citation: Adventures of a Keystroke) Some methods include:

 * Hooking API callbacks used for processing keystrokes. Unlike [Credential API Hooking](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1056/004), this focuses solely on API functions intended for processing keystroke data.
* Reading raw keystroke data from the hardware buffer.
* Windows Registry modifications.
* Custom drivers.
* [Modify System Image](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601) may provide adversaries with hooks into the operating system of network devices to read raw keystrokes for login sessions.(Citation: Cisco Blog Legacy Device Attacks) 

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - collection
  - credential-access


## technique
  - T1056.001


# Test : MacOS Swift Keylogger
## OS
  - macos


## Description:
Utilizes a swift script to log keys to sout. It runs for 5 seconds then dumps the output to standard. Input Monitoring is required.
Input Monitoring can be enabled in System Preferences > Security & Privacy > Privacy > Input Monitoring.
Referece: https://cedowens.medium.com/taking-esf-for-a-nother-spin-6e1e6acd1b74


## Executor
bash

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
