
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: Systemd Service 

Adversaries may create or modify systemd services to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. The systemd service manager is commonly used for managing background daemon processes (also known as services) and other system resources.(Citation: Linux man-pages: systemd January 2014)(Citation: Freedesktop.org Linux systemd 29SEP2018) Systemd is the default initialization (init) system on many Linux distributions starting with Debian 8, Ubuntu 15.04, CentOS 7, RHEL 7, Fedora 15, and replaces legacy init systems including SysVinit and Upstart while remaining backwards compatible with the aforementioned init systems.

Systemd utilizes configuration files known as service units to control how services boot and under what conditions. By default, these unit files are stored in the <code>/etc/systemd/system</code> and <code>/usr/lib/systemd/system</code> directories and have the file extension <code>.service</code>. Each service unit file may contain numerous directives that can execute system commands:

* ExecStart, ExecStartPre, and ExecStartPost directives cover execution of commands when a services is started manually by 'systemctl' or on system start if the service is set to automatically start. 
* ExecReload directive covers when a service restarts. 
* ExecStop and ExecStopPost directives cover when a service is stopped or manually by 'systemctl'.

Adversaries have used systemd functionality to establish persistent access to victim systems by creating and/or modifying service unit files that cause systemd to execute malicious commands at system boot.(Citation: Anomali Rocke March 2019)

While adversaries typically require root privileges to create/modify service unit files in the <code>/etc/systemd/system</code> and <code>/usr/lib/systemd/system</code> directories, low privilege users can create/modify service unit files in directories such as <code>~/.config/systemd/user/</code> to achieve user-level persistence.(Citation: Rapid7 Service Persistence 22JUNE2016)

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - privilege-escalation
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1543.002


# Test : Create Systemd Service file,  Enable the service , Modify and Reload the service.
## OS
  - linux


## Description:
This test creates a systemd service unit file and enables it to autostart on boot. Once service is created and enabled, it also modifies this same service file showcasing both Creation and Modification of system process. 


## Executor
bash

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
