
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Ingress Tool Transfer 

Adversaries may transfer tools or other files from an external system into a compromised environment. Files may be copied from an external adversary controlled system through the command and control channel to bring tools into the victim network or through alternate protocols with another tool such as FTP. Files can also be copied over on Mac and Linux with native tools like scp, rsync, and sftp.

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - command-and-control


## technique
  - T1105


# Test : Download a file with Microsoft Connection Manager Auto-Download
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Uses the cmdl32 to download arbitrary file from the internet. The cmdl32 package is allowed to install the profile used to launch the VPN connection. However, the config is modified to download the arbitary file. 
The issue of cmdl32.exe detecting and deleting the payload by identifying it as not a VPN Servers profile is avoided by setting a temporary TMP folder and denying the delete permission to all files for the user.
Upon successful execution the test will open calculator and Notepad executable for 10 seconds.
reference:
https://twitter.com/ElliotKillick/status/1455897435063074824
https://github.com/LOLBAS-Project/LOLBAS/pull/151
https://lolbas-project.github.io/lolbas/Binaries/Cmdl32/
https://strontic.github.io/xcyclopedia/library/cmdl32.exe-FA1D5B8802FFF4A85B6F52A52C871BBB.html


## Executor
command_prompt

# Sigma Rule
 - win_pc_cmd_redirect.yml (id: 4f4eaa9f-5ad4-410c-a4be-bc6132b0175a)

 - win_pc_susp_cmdl32_lolbas.yml (id: f37aba28-a9e6-4045-882c-d5004043b337)

 - win_pc_susp_taskkill.yml (id: 86085955-ea48-42a2-9dd3-85d4c36b167d)



[back](../index.md)
