
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :x: 

# Attack: DLL Side-Loading 

Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by side-loading DLLs. Similar to [DLL Search Order Hijacking](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/001), side-loading involves hijacking which DLL a program loads. But rather than just planting the DLL within the search order of a program then waiting for the victim application to be invoked, adversaries may directly side-load their payloads by planting then invoking a legitimate application that executes their payload(s).

Side-loading takes advantage of the DLL search order used by the loader by positioning both the victim application and malicious payload(s) alongside each other. Adversaries likely use side-loading as a means of masking actions they perform under a legitimate, trusted, and potentially elevated system or software process. Benign executables used to side-load payloads may not be flagged during delivery and/or execution. Adversary payloads may also be encrypted/packed or otherwise obfuscated until loaded into the memory of the trusted process.(Citation: FireEye DLL Side-Loading)

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - persistence
  - privilege-escalation
  - defense-evasion


## technique
  - T1574.002


# Test : DLL Side-Loading using the dotnet startup hook environment variable
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Utilizing the dotnet_startup_hooks environment variable, this method allows for registering a global method in an assembly that will be executed whenever a .net core application is started. This unlocks a whole range of scenarios, from injecting a profiler to tweaking a static context in a given environment. [blog post](https://medium.com/criteo-engineering/c-have-some-fun-with-net-core-startup-hooks-498b9ad001e1)


## Executor
command_prompt

# Sigma Rule


[back](../index.md)
