
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Keylogging 

Adversaries may log user keystrokes to intercept credentials as the user types them. Keylogging is likely to be used to acquire credentials for new access opportunities when [OS Credential Dumping](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003) efforts are not effective, and may require an adversary to intercept keystrokes on a system for a substantial period of time before credentials can be successfully captured.

Keylogging is the most prevalent type of input capture, with many different ways of intercepting keystrokes.(Citation: Adventures of a Keystroke) Some methods include:

* Hooking API callbacks used for processing keystrokes. Unlike [Credential API Hooking](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1056/004), this focuses solely on API functions intended for processing keystroke data.
* Reading raw keystroke data from the hardware buffer.
* Windows Registry modifications.
* Custom drivers.
* [Modify System Image](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601) may provide adversaries with hooks into the operating system of network devices to read raw keystrokes for login sessions.(Citation: Cisco Blog Legacy Device Attacks) 

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - credential-access
  - collection


## technique
  - T1056.001


# Test : Input Capture
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Utilize PowerShell and external resource to capture keystrokes
[Payload](https://github.com/redcanaryco/atomic-red-team/blob/master/atomics/T1056.001/src/Get-Keystrokes.ps1)
Provided by [PowerSploit](https://github.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit/blob/master/Exfiltration/Get-Keystrokes.ps1)

Upon successful execution, Powershell will execute `Get-Keystrokes.ps1` and output to key.log.


# Sigma Rule
 - powershell_keylogging.yml (id: 34f90d3c-c297-49e9-b26d-911b05a4866c)

 - powershell_script\powershell_suspicious_keywords.yml (id: 1f49f2ab-26bc-48b3-96cc-dcffbc93eadf)

 - powershell_nishang_malicious_commandlets.yml (id: f772cee9-b7c2-4cb2-8f07-49870adc02e0)



[back](../index.md)
