
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Modify Registry 

Adversaries may interact with the Windows Registry to hide configuration information within Registry keys, remove information as part of cleaning up, or as part of other techniques to aid in persistence and execution.

Access to specific areas of the Registry depends on account permissions, some requiring administrator-level access. The built-in Windows command-line utility [Reg](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0075) may be used for local or remote Registry modification. (Citation: Microsoft Reg) Other tools may also be used, such as a remote access tool, which may contain functionality to interact with the Registry through the Windows API.

Registry modifications may also include actions to hide keys, such as prepending key names with a null character, which will cause an error and/or be ignored when read via [Reg](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0075) or other utilities using the Win32 API. (Citation: Microsoft Reghide NOV 2006) Adversaries may abuse these pseudo-hidden keys to conceal payloads/commands used to maintain persistence. (Citation: TrendMicro POWELIKS AUG 2014) (Citation: SpectorOps Hiding Reg Jul 2017)

The Registry of a remote system may be modified to aid in execution of files as part of lateral movement. It requires the remote Registry service to be running on the target system. (Citation: Microsoft Remote) Often [Valid Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078) are required, along with access to the remote system's [SMB/Windows Admin Shares](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002) for RPC communication.

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - defense-evasion


## technique
  - T1112


# Test : Change Powershell Execution Policy to Bypass
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Attackers need to change the powershell execution policy in order to run their malicious powershell scripts.
They can either specify it during the execution of the powershell script or change the registry value for it.


## Executor
powershell

# Sigma Rule
 - proc_creation_win_powershell_set_policies_to_unsecure_level.yml (id: 87e3c4e8-a6a8-4ad9-bb4f-46e7ff99a180)

 - posh_ps_set_policies_to_unsecure_level.yml (id: 61d0475c-173f-4844-86f7-f3eebae1c66b)



[back](../index.md)
