
[back](../index.md)

Find sigma rule :heavy_check_mark: 

# Attack: Account Manipulation 

Adversaries may manipulate accounts to maintain access to victim systems. Account manipulation may consist of any action that preserves adversary access to a compromised account, such as modifying credentials or permission groups. These actions could also include account activity designed to subvert security policies, such as performing iterative password updates to bypass password duration policies and preserve the life of compromised credentials. 

In order to create or manipulate accounts, the adversary must already have sufficient permissions on systems or the domain. However, account manipulation may also lead to privilege escalation where modifications grant access to additional roles, permissions, or higher-privileged [Valid Accounts](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078).

# MITRE
## Tactic
  - persistence


## technique
  - T1098


# Test : Domain Password Policy Check: Short Password
## OS
  - windows


## Description:
Attempt to change the password of the current domain user in order to check password policy. Ideally, you would only run this atomic test to verify that your password policy is blocking the use of the new password.
If the password is succesfully changed to the new password, the credential file will be updated to reflect the new password.  You can then run the atomic manually and specify a new password of your choosing, however the
password policy will likely prevent you from setting the password back to what it was.


## Executor
powershell

# Sigma Rule
 - proc_creation_win_powershell_cmdline_convertto_securestring.yml (id: 74403157-20f5-415d-89a7-c505779585cf)

 - win_security_susp_outbound_kerberos_connection.yml (id: eca91c7c-9214-47b9-b4c5-cb1d7e4f2350)

 - posh_ps_remove_item_path.yml (id: b8af5f36-1361-4ebe-9e76-e36128d947bf)

 - posh_ps_susp_get_current_user.yml (id: 4096a49c-7de4-4da0-a230-c66ccd56ea5a)



[back](../index.md)
